[Music]
so the hardware items that we will be
looking at are the following the cpu
the storage and various partitions that
are there
and the graphics card
memory modules
battery and its current status
network devices and the configuration
now there is a bunch of packages that we
need to install
in order to use these
tools so here i am giving the names of
those packages
so please go ahead and install these
using apt-get install
and after that we are ready to try out
these commands on our machine
i am assuming that we are going to use
the laptop that we have to try these
utilities often we notice that the
battery performance of a laptop keeps
decreasing with time
and it's a good idea to know how much of
its capacity is still retained so that
we can replace it before the prices for
such a battery uh increase beyond
our means or
before such batteries are not available
in the market let us get started with
the hardware diagnostics the first tool
we will be using is hw info
so if you have already
installed that package it would be
available and hw info is to probe for
hardware
so when you run this
it will probe the hardware and dump a
lot of output on the screen so it's a
good idea to write it to a file
so i would write it to hw info.txt and
then i will use the command less
to look at the
content
so page by page we could see the
hardware information
so you could see that we have
information about the processors so
and then we have information about
pci devices that are plugged in
and we also have information about the
partitions that are there in the system
and here you see the
the headphones that i'm using jbl
quantum 300
it's also detected here as one of the
devices usb device
and then the dell keyboard
is detected here
and the tablet on which i am uh doing
this recording that's a vacuum tablet
that's also require
recognized and so on so you could
actually look at this file uh to know
more details
about the hardware
there are some more commands that we
have so let us look at them
so
lshw is also one more such
utility list hardware
and let us look at that
so it's again dumping the output on the
screen which is quite large so
i write the output to the text file
and using the command
unless i would go screen the screen so
you can now see that the way the
information is displayed slightly
different compared to the
other
tool but it is a little bit easier
because it has limited information
so you could now see that this
information is coming in various
sections
so we could also ask the information to
come
to be displayed in a particular section
also
say for example you could ask for
display
and only for display it would tell
what is the information
that is available
now if you are interested to know more
about only the cpus that is also
available
in the proc file system
cpu info so you simply cad that file and
you have got the information about the
processors that are available
and the information here contains many
many flags which actually tell the
capability of the cpu
and
the cache memory
here ah tells you uh how good the
machine is going to work for a heavy
computation so some of the processors
like xeon would have a cache memory that
is significantly larger so let us look
at that by logging into a machine
which has a xeon processor
so this one for example is a core i3 so
i login now
to a machine
which is just beside this particular
desktop
and
there i
look at this option
and you can see that the cache size here
is
roughly about 12 megabytes and that is
because this is a xeon processor so you
can see that
one can actually get more details about
the
cpu and its finer hardware details using
these commands which are also available
in multiple forms
what are the various partitions that are
created in the storage device
attached with this computer can also be
listed
so you could test
slash brock file system has a partition
information also
and it will list you what all the
various partitions including the loop
devices which are meant for usually snap
packages and
you also have the block sizes that are
listed here
now how many block type devices are
available how many storage devices are
available so that is available using
lsblk command
and
i would like to
ask it to give me the name and the size
so all the block devices are listed and
here a nice display is available here it
says that the storage is about 1 tb and
there are 7 partitions and each of those
partitions what is the size
is now listed here so slightly more easy
to read
now let us look at this also in the
other machine that
i was referring to
so
lsblk minus o name comma
size
so here you can see that
the
storage devices are actually two
one of them actually has a
21.9 terabytes and the other one has a
half a terabyte so there are two devices
and
the
one which is 21.9 terabytes is actually
a raid device which we will learn about
in one of the following
modules
now what are all the various pci devices
that are connected to this computer
so that is known from the command lsbci
so you can see the list of various
hardware items
and
there are some bridge
adapters there is a graphics card that
is installed
and then you have some things that are
recognized
here for example
the ethernet card so the ethernet
controller which is for the network
connectivity with the lamp that is
installed
and you also have a
sound device
real tech
and then there is a wireless device also
serial number 3165 that is coming from
intel so most of the hardware items that
are plugged into the motherboard
using the pci bus can also be listed
here now there is a command
called
free which would
tell you some details
it will tell you about how much of
memory is free and how much of swap
memory is unutilized and this means that
there is certain amount of memory that
we have of which something is used and
something is free so you can make out
here that this computer has about
32 gb of ram
and i have usually it's a practice to
have double the memory as a swap storage
and that's why it is about roughly
double the size of the memory that i
have created here
uh if you want to know
how is this memory installed how many
dim modules are actually used to have
this
ram available in the computer you also
have it utility to know that
this is a
information coming from quite deep
within the operating system so super
user permissions may be required
so dmi decode
is utility
and i want to have that for the memory
okay so you now see that the memory
information is coming out
and you have got the maximum capacity 32
gb and this 32 gb is given in two dim
modules so the dim one
and the dim two so there are two modules
that is two 16 gb
memory modules that are installed and
each of these have lot of information
coming up for example what is the
voltage
and what is the speed of that particular
memory device
and
using this number you can also find out
who is the manufacturer and so on so 16
gb
dim slot first one type ddr4 with a
speed of 2400 mt per second and
operating at 1.2 volts this is the
information that we need
when we want to
add one more dim module by procuring it
in let us say amazon now but the form
factor also is important because the
memory can come in
small and large formats for desktop and
laptop computers so this form factor is
also something that you may want to look
at so let us look at this form factor in
the other computer that i have
so you can see that here
there are multiple items so naturally
this is a bigger computer so it has more
dim modules occupied
and
this has 64 gb memory actually
the ddr4 memory has a form factor which
says dim and not sodium so that is the
difference so
the computer on which i am actually
recording is a dell all-in-one so it has
a memory module which is smaller in size
which is same as laptop one
but the computer where i am showing you
information is actually a workstation
where the memory module is large one so
one needs to basically keep an eye on
those details also and you also make out
that it's a bit faster because the speed
is
listed here and slightly more
uh there is also a utility called hard
info which is basically a gui utility
so i don't have it yet so let me get it
this is a
graphical way of looking at the same
information that we have been seen till
now so nothing more is anyway available
but it may be
slightly easier for you to look at if
the
the computer is right in front of you so
here is the
information
and you can see that all the hardware
items on the left and you can click each
of
the items and look at whatever is the
information that is available
from the diagnostics so this is a very
nice utility
however
the command line utility is also pretty
good it has all the information in a
textual form for you to note down now
what kind of a graphics card we have so
for that we need a utility called cl
info
and it tells you
about the
kind of
libraries that are supported by the
graphics card so we have only a intel uh
hardware here
a built-in graphics card so it doesn't
have too many features however i can
login to my laptop
where i have this
information which is going to be
slightly different because there the
graphics card is different
so
login to the
laptop there
okay it was sleeping so i just
yeah
so laptop was actually going to sleep so
yeah so here we can look at it
so here you can see that the
laptop when i run
it has slightly more information coming
up so it has slightly different
information that is displayed
the version number
supported
and what is the
processor that is used for
computing the gpu languages such as
opencl or
cuda in the case of nvidia hardware so
those can be displayed
so it's a good idea to run these to know
now there is a utility called u power
which is used to
know about the battery status so i have
now logged on to the laptop so i
look at that
so u power
and minus e option
tells us what are the various battery
devices okay so you see that there are a
bunch of them and
of these this particular device looks
like a battery device so
now i run with that particular device
name a minus i option is required so now
what we can see is that this is a bad
laptop with a battery
that is with a type model called
dell cr72x11
and right now the state of the battery
is it is discharging that means it is
not
powered on
to the mains and it is battery is
actually running the computer
and the
full capacity
design capacity is 95
watt
and when it is fully charged it is 81
which means that we have lost about
about seven or eight percent of the
capacity already and
with time this number will keep coming
down
and it also tells in terms of percentage
how much of
battery power is still
retained and how much time
it is to empty that particular battery
right now actually
the computer was running something so it
was showing
such a
time but
it would actually increase that time you
can see that time to empty is now 34
hours simply because when i first
started the command it just started to
run some utilities so it was cpu was
going full blast so it showed as if only
two under 2.1 hours is available but
after some time when we ask again it
says that there are 34 hours available
so this battery capacity i know it's
about
8 hours capacity at a normal usage now
what i do is that watch this
state it says discharging so i will just
switch on
the power and then we will look at that
again
okay so i just switched on the
adapter
and now let us look at it and you now
see that the
state has changed
it says it is charging now okay so this
is how in fact by just command line
utilities you can know what is happening
to the
battery system
and
how much of capacity is still
remaining
so this 93 becomes let us say
40 or 30 that means that it's about time
to replace the battery
okay so
diagnostics on the battery at this level
of details are not possible using a
graphics
utility
on windows also if you right click also
nothing much will be shown
but this is great you can see a lot of
details
some of the hardware devices that are
installed like storage can be of
different types so you can have a sata
hard disk or you can have a ssd hard
disk the difference between these is in
terms of the speed so let us see how we
can detect that
so i i want to now run the
hard disk parameter check on the device
called sda so which is the only hard
disk we have here
so it would run those
diagnostics and show you
uh by
sending the data and receiving the data
it will tell you what's the kind of
speed at which that particular device is
operating
so you can see that
the
reading from the
disk is about 127 megabytes per second
but from the cache is about 6 gb per
second so
that is the peak speed is 6 gb per
second okay so
i have only one disk sda which is
actually a sata disk now i will log on
to my workstation where i have two types
of disks and there we will see what this
kind of information would look like
now the sda in this workstation is
actually a raid device so i expect
slightly better speed
so let us look at
that
so you could see that
the disk read is actually
almost four times faster than on
the first device that i tried and the
peak speed is also slightly better it's
about seven and a half gbps so the
reason why it is so fast is also because
this is a raid array and we will learn
about that in a moment
but i also have another device which is
sdb which is a
ssd disk and you will see that these
numbers will be quite different in that
situation
so now you see that the
buffer discrete is twice that of the
first disk that i did earlier and it is
not a raid disk it is a single disk and
the reason why it is faster is because
it is actually a
ssd device
okay so one can actually also perform
metrics on the
hardware devices in this manner which
helps us understand
the capacity of our hardware now one
last thing that i would like to show you
also about the
i o statistics
so iostat happens to be coming from a
package which i have not installed in
the server so i just have that
come in
and here are the speeds that we can look
at
so when your
computer is
busy
and you are suspecting that perhaps
there is a lot of
work that is happening between the cpu
and the storage devices then you can
look at these numbers to compare them
with
an ideal time numbers to see if it was
really
a lot of i o operations that are
happening the input output operations
that are happening
now regarding the
network
if config is a utility which will tell
you what kind of a network configuration
we have
so on this machine i have got
a an ethernet connection a wired
connection which is having an ip address
which is falling in the 10 point series
and then a loopback device which is like
127.0.0.1 so we will learn about these
addresses
in a moment but
i just want to show you that this
information as a part of hardware is
also available so i hope you
can make out that a lot of information
about your hardware is available
at the
fingertips
and by having these packages installed
and keeping these names of utilities
handy
you can diagnose
the
details about
your hardware
and in case you need to replace any of
those
you can also look up the specs so that
you can get compatible items for
replacement when you need to
you